i'll ask miss hancock to have a roll
call please mr burton
uh mr dirt is absent mr henderson
present ms merrick's president mr mills
here mr moon here mr doss here
this time we want to certify closed
action items
i'll make a motion certified
second
roll call please
mr burton aye mr fitzgerald is absent mr
henderson aye ms merricks aye mr mills
aye mr moon aye mr doss aye
okay do we have action items that are
closed yes we have a motion to approve
personnel changes for july 12 2022 and
the recommendations for academic and
coaching assignments the
2022-2023 as presented
so move
any discussion on the personnel changes
no discussion but miss hancock i don't
know if people can hear you oh i'm sorry
is that better
no no
am i on
okay is that better
that's better
please the motion was to approve
personnel changes for july 12 2022 and
the recommendations for academic and
coaching assignments for
2022-2023 as presented have a motion for
mr burton and the second from mr moon is
there any discussion on personnel
changes
if not roll call please mr burton aye mr
fitzgerald is absent mr henderson all
right miss merricks aye mr mills aye mr
moon aye mr dolce all right
before we go into the rest of the
regular meeting you got one more okay go
ahead i'm sorry we have an additional
motion to approve the release from
compulsory attendance for one student
based on religious exemption i'll make a
motion
any discussion
roll call please
mr burton mr fitzgerald is absent mr
henderson aye ms merricks aye mr mills
aye mr moon aye mr doss all right
so before we start the
regular part of the meeting i'm going to
ask dr jones if he'll recognize our new
student liaisons because i do not know
their names yet yes sir yes sir it's
quite an honor to to have met with them
earlier this afternoon we provide a
training session for them we go through
their their responsibilities
what they what this year will look like
we go through
the board members responsibilities and
then contacts a lot of things that we
share with them we have two here this
evening the other two are away
they both participate in other
educational
opportunities this summer and were
really a way out of town on those this
summer but we're very fortunate to have
from dan river high school
grace dawes grace if you'd like to stand
up
and remain standing and then from
tunstall high school
we have mackenzie harris
and i will share a little bit about
these two both have some experience
with the board or with the school
division
grace
older sister was a school board
representative probably three years ago
was it three years ago
and then mckenzie's mother is a teacher
at tunsil high school so we they bring a
wealth experience from that way as well
so please join me in welcoming them
[Applause]
it's good to have you all here tonight
welcome to the board we look forward to
working with you and i always tell all
of them you got big shoes to fill but
i'm sure you'll do a great job every
year i i just get amazed at the students
that we get so i'm sure you all will be
no different
okay do we have any additions to the
agenda
do i have a motion to approve the agenda
then i make motion we prove if agenda
has us presented
so
any discussion
roll call please
mr burton aye mr fitzgerald is absent mr
henderson aye ms merricks aye mr mills
aye mr moon aye mr doss all right
consent agenda
move we approve
second
any discussion on any of the consent
agenda items
if not roll call please mr burton aye mr
fitzgerald is absent mr henderson aye ms
merricks aye mr mills aye mr moon aye mr
doss all right
mr mayhew do you see any new employees
out in the
auditorium i was looking for i had an
indication that there were a couple but
i don't know if i see them here is
anybody new
i didn't want to overlook them if they
were here
thank you
uh miss walker i do see you sitting back
there
good to see you again we've missed you
for the last month or so
mr dawes thank you so much members of
the board and staff thank you and
welcome our new student representative
special
wonderful you learn so much here i'm
martha walker and i'm from the dan river
district and it has been my pleasure for
the last few months to
represent and to support our efforts to
inform and educate and encourage people
to vote yes for the one cent sales tax
one percent sales tax referendum
that will be on the november eight
ballot
i'm here tonight just to give you a
brief update number one i want you to
know that people our supporters are
coming out we have visited i've been at
so many schools and fire departments and
community groups
we want to be it more so we're asking
for your help your input on places where
we can go mr burton thank you so much
for always being there mr fitzgerald has
been there many of you mr henderson mr
dawes i know i think mr moon you spoke
recently at an event and so we're so
grateful for that and and thank you so
much for coming and being there too uh
miss merricks we are so grateful to each
one of you and of course we could not do
this without dr jones he is at
everything
we spent a saturday morning together in
gretna at the juneteenth recently and
that that was a pactful and
impactful moment we got to talk to a lot
of people that we normally would not
have been able to visit with we also
want you to know that the chamber of
commerce has stepped in in a huge way to
be a strong supporter
they are publicizing the information on
the one percent sales tax referendum so
that it our business community will know
what is going on
we also have a
talked with
the county administration about asking
for their help to inform people on why
this 1 sales tax is on the budget on the
referendum on the ballot this november
what impact it will make in the county
how much money we think will come as you
know it's 3.8 million has been projected
each year based on a 1
so we are grateful that they are
considering to help in giving out
information on that as well
a couple of things i want you to be
aware of we are hearing two specific
things from the community number one
they want to know more about career and
technical center they want to know
with this passing of a one percent sales
tax additional sales tax what will this
really mean for career and technical we
we know that it's going to add
classrooms we know it's going to expand
training opportunities and it's going to
take students who are currently on the
waiting list and be able to uh put them
in courses that the companies our
employers
are demanding
today we learned that
a key person in our county in economic
development has said that the career
technical center is absolutely the key
in encouraging and expanding businesses
in pennsylvania county and the danville
area so that's the question and we're
going to work to continue to address it
another key question that we're getting
is safety so tell me how the one percent
sales additional sales tax being passed
will improve our students safety in
schools we already know the answer we
know that it will put classrooms
attached to the building so our children
will not have to go outside to move
between lunch or or restrooms or or
the gymnasium that they won't have to do
that it will be self-contained we also
know it will add secure entrances
to our elementary schools so those are
the two
key questions that we're hearing a lot
of right now and so we are responding
we are also
asking you and encouraging those who are
here as well as those who are watching
online to consider volunteering we have
so many opportunities to tell this story
and to help inform people the handouts i
encourage everyone here to take a a
flyer it's out on the podium
we i've also brought you buttons tonight
thank you so much for having them on
y'all look great and so i hope the
students will get some we've got plenty
i'll bring more but um we do need
volunteers and so i hope that you will
respond and especially in how we work
within our schools and within our
communities to get the word out and
identify places where we can come and
tell this story but i also want to
answer any questions or hear any advice
or suggestions that you have
miss walker i would like to just
reiterate
let me ask we have pretty good crowd
tonight about 30 spectators of parents
here
how many of you really know what the 1
sales tax is going to do
raise your hand if you do
let me just share this let me just share
this and that
every correct me if i'm wrong
every single penny
that comes in on the sales tax goes to
school renovations
not a dime goes anywhere else there's no
overhead it's the the money that miss
walker's operating on is is given to
to her or to the system and and that's
to be used for advertisement et cetera
but i just wanted people to know that
every single penny goes to school
renovations every penny of it and so
it's not going to be wasted
right by law it's my law school
construction and renovation
and um and there is a strong plan for
that also we should mention that the
group that i'm working with is called
pennsylvanians for a brighter future
2022 and that the money that is being
used to purchase yard signs uh radio
advertising
any social media
any any mailings that's done anything
all of that is donated uh from
individuals and businesses not a penny
of state tax dollars goes to pay for
anything and
and and my salary is so huge
in doing this
zero zero
i am a resident of pennsylvania county a
county that i love and i feel that this
is very important and therefore a lot of
us are stepping forward and saying this
is important so thank you for saying
that other comments or questions one of
the questions that i had was
could the county keep any of the money
or go back and use it for the old debt
that was still outstanding on the bonds
and i assured them that they couldn't
that had been confirmed by dr jones
and the other little tidbit where i live
upon the northern end of the county very
far north i told the people i said we
got a double whammy here for us one
ninety percent of what we buy by we buy
in campbell county all of us do
linksberg they can't put the tax in
but if we vote for the tax we get the
benefit of it but we it's not costing us
anything unless you buy something in
hurt which is nothing that much to buy
except the gas station and the super and
uh you know maybe some food so and i did
say the same thing it hurt elementary
school when we did a pto meeting that
you know up on that but down on your end
of the county the people are already
paying the taxes starting friday before
last july the first the city of danville
without getting really an educational
benefit third of it at this time
thank you that's an excellent point yes
danville did pass this and last november
it went into effect july 1. so if
pennsylvania county approves this or
maybe let me rephrase that when
pennsylvania county approves this
november the 8th it will go into effect
july 1 of 2023. we also need to mention
that when i go to danville and i buy
food or i shop i'm paying the extra 1
cent sales tax now
will it apply to my groceries no does
not apply to medication
and it does not apply to some of the
agricultural products especially that
used for food production and that's part
of the law as well thank you for saying
that other comments mr burton yeah a
couple of things
don't think that it has to be larger
groups that we want to come speak to
because the experience i've had the
small groups fire departments
i'm going to rooting club next week
they are more interested and have some
of the better questions sometimes you
get a large group people are hesitant to
ask
but these people are have been involved
and asked good questions and have
learned a lot and have been eager to
help
the other thing is
mrs walker mentioned that this is done
through donations they can still accept
some more if anybody feels
led to to help because it is expensive
to run these kind of campaigns yes it is
thank you mr burt thank you for your
help too
mr
dr walker you mentioned safety was a
huge concern and i've heard that as well
i mentioned at the last school board
meeting and it was not in the plans
originally but the middle schools really
need the vestibules built for the safety
reasons and so i hope that's one thing
that can we can readjust on the what the
money will be spent on and include that
as well that'll be good uh you know we
might mention dr jones i believe um the
uh the
the key list of needs that were
identified by the school board was
around 70 million
give or take
and when we did the numbers with the
county uh 3.8 million times 19 years
because that's what the current that's
what's on the ballot now not 20 but 19.
it will actually allow give us a little
over 50 million
to actually expend on the schools and so
to be able to get to all the other
projects i know dr jones the school
board and the county are looking at
every bit of money that's coming in
from other sources like the current
governor's budget and what's been put in
that so um and other funds that could be
available so you're right this is a huge
project and a huge need and there's a
lot on there more than on the handout
that everybody can pick up it outlines
all the things with the schools and
what's needed we have that it's y'all
y'all have done a fabulous job in giving
us this information but it's bigger
isn't it it's more than just what's here
excellent point speak to that just
briefly
it is limited of what we can do with the
50 million but also we discussed any
planning stages that covet money other
monies the grant money that are coming
this past will actually leave some some
of the things we've been spending doing
and we can use that money to do some of
the smaller projects
that's right yes sir mr burton you
mentioned that we we received some
federal money
for covet relief
any bit that we had available we put it
towards and could use it we put it
towards renovations putting in new
windows new hvac units because they were
acceptable under the provisions of those
funds
so we we utilize every bit of money that
we have available to renovate the
schools we just have 21 buildings
spanning a large county
but over the next 20 years or 19 years
they're going to be a lot of expenses
that come to aging schools our schools
elementary schools are anywhere from 84
to 60 some years old
those eight schools are very old and
during that time these renovation
projects will help with with those needs
in those schools
i had one other question and this would
go back again the dr jones and then back
to the county
if we if it passes which i'm 99 positive
it will with the output that everybody's
doing this year can't will the county
start planning so that they can look at
rolling out a bond issue if we go that
route effective july the 1st
of 2023 so we can start working
immediately
in that year that the funds start coming
in
yes sir we've had those discussions with
the county okay yes sir and and that's
one of the things that i also have
talked to our county administration to
please help the count help the county
understand how this will work how the
funds will be generated once it's passed
mr dos anybody else let me correct one
thing yes dr walker
it's okay
martha would be fine
thank you so much for all of your
support and everything it means a lot to
a group of volunteers who are just
trying to do a little bit to improve the
county thank you so much so when you
cash that 399 check for your pay okay
next week okay thank you yeah right
thank you
okay we did have a couple people call
last week to speak to the boy tonight
and i just want to remind you if you do
want to come before the board you need
to call miss hancock prior to friday
friday before the meetings on tuesday
so if
the first name is
ms brianna terry
i would ask you to please try to limit
it to three minutes okay
before you start my time i have one
thing to ask
whoever's here to support middle school
sports please
now we know why all these people are
here
i was kind of wondering but i thought
that might be
but i will say this it is very good to
see this many people come out and bed
i'm meeting it's unusual thank you all
for coming
just let me know when i'm ready go ahead
thank you
i'm here tonight in support of middle
school sports i am representing not only
the chatham district but our community
overall i want to thank each of you for
your time we want you to know that we
are in complete support for the
rewriting of the policy to allow middle
school sports into our county
we commend you on looking into this and
want you to know that we are willing to
get help to help get this going
in our hold on for middle school sports
into our county we commend you on
looking into this and want you to know
that we are willing to help get this
going pennsylvania county is one
is one of four counties in the state of
virginia that does not have middle
school sports
we are also the largest county by land
mass in the state we as a group are
looking to you for leadership to help
create more opportunities for our middle
school youth in this county
the last few weeks a group of volunteer
parents including myself have been
diligently looking into options and
alternatives for how middle school
sports can work in our area
there are suggestions of creating
positions at the high school or middle
school levels
or creating an athletic director
position strictly based upon a teaching
degree in the school system
we also thought about transportation
issues suggestions were offering
teachers incentive to drive buses using
the subs when they are not subbing and
coaches if they are willing to
a big factor in every sport of course is
money
where are we going to get the money to
start these programs remember the movie
field of dreams if you build it they
will come
people love to watch kids play any sport
money is not an issue
we cannot let the fear of trying to find
money stop us from building a program i
have coached in this county for over 20
years i want each district to grow from
this opportunity i encourage each one of
you to think outside the box before you
close the door on these options
some of you might ask why the push for
middle school sports
middle school sports can prepare a young
athlete to understand the meaning of
teamwork and work ethic at a young age
on a more competitive level it will also
prepare them mentally physically and
academically for the
varsity level
middle school students will be held
accountable for their behavior
academics and representing their school
when they travel just as in high school
some of our student athletes in
pennsylvania county are not able to make
the transition from county programs to
the varsity level due to the lack of
knowledge and skill
most will give up and walk away from
that sport middle school sports will
offer better socializing skills
communication skills and being a part of
their community having middle school
sports will contribute to those students
who cannot afford to play travel ball or
recreational sports the opportunity to
build skills at a low or no cost fee
right now we are not able to play
outside of our area against other
stronger athletic teams because we are
not sanctioned
we want to build our districts feed our
high schools with successful athletes we
want to give them the opportunity to
excel early starting at the middle
school level
thank you
i think a little bit later you'll hear
dr jones talk in his statements tonight
about middle school and and what next
steps we may want to look at
so if you'll stick around a little bit
and listen to his reports you may hear
some more on it okay
all right next
mr gene evans
good evening i'm gene evans i live in
the tunstall district
i have some questions about
the
do all the middle schools
have facilities including showers and
locker rooms for
the participation in the sports
will all the schools have full-time
staff
for
supporting the sports program
and
do the all the middle schools have
a room for a field for them to play on
if not how are we going to
accomplish these things
because having a sports program and
wanting everybody to travel to their
closest high school
i don't think is a very
feasible
idea
i believe it ought to be right there at
the school
the kids go to that school they practice
at that school they play at that school
with the staff that is at that school
so
thank you
thank you that that's part of what
you're going to hear dr jones talk about
two it's facilities
um it's not as easy as just saying we're
gonna do it
but there's a lot of questions that have
to be answered and you correct we have
to look at all of these things even
insurance and stuff so
it's not it's doable but you know it's
going to take a lot
to do it but it's doable and if we keep
kicking it
down the road
we'll be back here 10 years from now
still asking these same questions
you're correct that is correct
okay thank y'all
next we have the other dr jones i always
say dr jessica jones from the pea i see
you in the back
i hope your summer's going well
well just think next month when you come
back we will be back in the classroom
another year it's not uh you know the
older you get the faster time goes by my
grandmother told me that and i told her
she was crazy but she was right
it took me getting old to learn that
though
and you beg her pardon well i wished i
could right that's right
um so last month and actually i want to
start there we discussed this national
dairy month thing right
and at tunstall high school i just want
to say this we had a summer solstice
celebration
that included the consumption of some
very delicious dairy products like large
glasses of milk to wash down large bowls
of ice cream and toppings
you should have been there i'm just
going to say that you should have been
there so please mark your calendars for
and come and enjoy the the festivities
okay i didn't see my invitation
well you know i had said something
standing here and there was no
follow-ups i mean come on now so we're
going to make a plan today that we're
going to look at this again a year from
now right and do a good celebration
maybe all the schools could do that at
one time right like a little summer
treat for all of their employees
because when you think about it people
want to have a joyous occasion right and
what's more joyous of occasion to eat
ice cream and drink milk because it's
summer come on now um but
one of the other things i do want to
also say
um even though y'all weren't able to be
there in june one of the things that you
did make happen in june is our seven
percent uh cost living adjustment
and to be frank i know that the words
thank you seem to fall flat but they
shouldn't in this case even in the face
of inflation um
employees are grateful and glad that
they got the cost of living just a
matter of fact i was talking to somebody
before i came here
that was saying hey i actually got back
to where i was
but gas is going to kind of take some of
that but at least now i have more money
to spend on
gas
so it's it's appreciative
and anything that you can do for the
further compensation in the future i
know that miss worley had kind of
alluded to something in the fall maybe
bonus wise would work i know bonuses
doesn't help the overall retirement but
it can help with the immediate
consumption because things aren't easy
we all know that
uh particularly when we're looking at
inflation at eight and a half percent
right
and before summer vacation
gas was cheaper i guess 406 is okay but
it's more than double than what people
were paying
so transportation costs are an issue and
you all know that because you have to
look at diesel prices
when you're moving buses twice a day
five days a week
your employees have to move their
vehicles twice a day
five days a week
so so that's something that is a
mitigating factor that some people are
trying to calculate and figure out how
can they make it
in addition to that some employees have
expressed some concerns or fears that
there will be an increase
in insurance prices
though there's nothing that has been
alluded to to substantiate that
so if you can just whatever you can do
to uh basically
squelch that concern
as ex
as expressly as you can that would be
great because that's one of the other
issues that people are thinking they're
like oh i got a little bit more is
insurance going to take that and then
i'm right back where i was less than two
months ago
on another note
i do want to share that
through the month of uh june
from may 31st to about june 24th
and then from june 27th
up until june 30th
there were several events that occurred
that i was a part of but officially from
july the 1st through the 7th i attended
our national education
association
representative assembly
and that was actually held in chicago
illinois so
after 2020 you know covet was a thing we
were not in person until this year where
more than 6 000
of my fellow colleagues joined in the
convention hall
and serving as your representative to
the virginia delegation it was really
awesome to able to network and socialize
um
and we tackled nearly 90
new business items
some of them are things that we're
already addressing in the county okay
like air filtration systems one of them
in particular about mold and i think we
all know you've heard about me i'm
allergic to mold
that's how i went from somebody who was
two times the size i am to back to where
i am today
the mold almost killed me
and unfortunately i've had colleagues
who have had mold poisoning and it
turned into cancer
and that's real
and we have to be mindful about the
working environment is also the learning
environment
with that being said we had a nationwide
call for safe
as well as just in equitable schools and
to work with all of our stakeholders
school board members board of
supervisors members parents and
colleagues to make that happen across
the nation because your zip code should
not indicate the type of education that
you receive
you should receive a quality education
regardless of where you live
in addition to that we actually did get
a visit from vice president kamala
harris
and then we got to
meet some of the abc
crew from abbott elementary
and then we had a video message from
president joe biden
and then we heard from other people
including the teacher and esp of the
year
as well as president becky pringle who
is still an 8th grade science teacher
and going across the country
sharing her love and passion for a
better educational system
with that being said i do want to
acknowledge that we were impacted by the
events of july the 4th
because our convention center was less
than 20 miles
from highland park
we heard from colleagues the next day
that actually worked and lived in the
community
and they shared the fact that that
morning they were texting their friends
and neighbors happy fourth of july and
by lunchtime they were seeing if they
were still alive or not
and i will tell you
to be told that you can't leave a venue
and if you have to you gotta get
convention staff
so security can actually do a threat
assessment
will make you think when you got six
thousand people sitting in one spot
going what's next
safety is an issue
and it has to be addressed just like
health
and it's chilling to know these things
are happening all across
our country and even at home matter of
fact a week ago today
the incident and loss of life at saint
paul's
baptist church is less than 10 minutes
from my house
i have to pass it at church at least
once a week
and that's chilling
because you have to ask yourself what do
people really think about each other
so with all the challenges that we're
faced in life i'm not quite certain of
the direction that society is going in
but i hope it's a better direction that
values people
every day
and works to support nourish and
encourage that
and elect them in a positive and genuine
way
not based on an agenda
but based on them being a human being
so we as pea as an organization and your
school division partner
look forward to working with you at the
end of this month for the pcs new
employee orientation
and being a part of our activities
moving forward
because it's a sign of new beginnings an
opportunity for growth and a brighter
day than yesterday for student staff
community
and our future as a whole
so thank you for your time
thank you for your investment in
education
and thank you for being good people
that want to look out for the people
around you
thank you dr jones
enjoy the rest of your short summer
okay
does anybody have any question on the
staff of committee reports don't you
want to call it anything on any of them
no sir i think it's right there anybody
have any questions
if not we'll move on to the report from
the superintendent
yes sir mr dahl school board members i
have a few items to share with you this
evening
dr walker i've shared much about what's
taking place
regarding the sales tax referendum but i
would like to share a couple of meetings
that are taking place dr walker
mentioned the juneteenth celebration in
gretna and
you all were there several of you all
were there at that and we greatly
appreciate your participation there
uh mr burton mentioned the drive for
realton club on july the 18th at 6 30
and then we're meeting with the
riverview rotary uh this thursday
morning at 7 30. so those are things
initially pretty immediately on our
agendas
for
for contact with the community
the next item i have is talking about
school safety we've mentioned school
safety a lot this evening
with the things taking place across our
country with the events that have taken
place you know that is a concern for all
of us the sheriff and i have been in
many conversations this summer and most
recently we've talked about the video
cameras that we have in our buildings
you know you are aware that when you
drive up we have cameras that provide
pretty good video access
to outside the outside of our building
but also inside our buildings
one
one approach that would be important or
one stance that one
thing that you all could approve that
would be beneficial to the sheriff's
department would be for us to provide
access
to the sheriff's department
to those videos in real time
we have to work through
issues around the legality of that
when we capture a student on a video
camera
if that's used for educational purposes
including discipline that becomes a part
of that student's education record
and that's protected
and so we have to be mindful of that
as we would provide access
but in speaking with our attorney
we can provide the access
in a limited manner so in speaking with
the sheriff
what we would propose to do would be to
provide
access to his office
and the sheriff's deputies vehicles
in cases of emergencies as determined by
the superintendent or designee so this
evening you know i would like to ask you
all
kind of guidance on that if you all
would see that that's the direction that
you'd like for us to take
then i would like to hear that from you
all this evening when i ask that is
emotion it's not in new business but i
would like that direction i think as a
superintendent i have that ability to do
that but i'd like to get you all
thoughts on that if you have any
thoughts regarding that
my thought is why not use the technology
at hand i mean if you if you have an
incident in a building and it doesn't
really matter what the incident is
whether it's sick or whatever if it can
get emergency people
to the right place quicker
then that's going to help save lives
so i don't see any reason why not to do
it unless somebody can give me a good
reason
move forward with it yeah i'm fine you
want a motion yes so that definitely
somebody make a motion yeah i'd like to
make a motion that we accept the
superintendent's recommendation on that
second
any more discussion by y'all
i think it's an it's a no-brainer really
a no-brainer and like dr jones says in
the climate that we live in today we
need to do everything
that we can think of plus more to
protect our students protect our schools
and our parents and et cetera so that's
a no-brainer to me
simple question but it may be complex i
have normally if you have a shooting
situation you'll have a kids with a cell
phone dial at 9-1-1
that goes to the outside how is the
information going to be relayed
back into the school
so decisions can be made quickly with
that before the
sheriff's department gets there is it
any mechanism to be hooked in directly
with that or
you know we have crisis management plans
for many different scenarios that take
place within the school that could take
place
and there are there are processes within
that within that plan as to who to
contact and when to contact
our staff would immediately under mercy
would immediately call the sheriff's
department that's that would be first on
their list of things to do
they would do that
you're talking about individual cell
phones for students correct where
because they would be calling if they
dialed anything it would go to the
outside
and the information would have to be fed
back in
if it if they was dialing 9-1-1
yeah that's
in that case would be out of our control
that's part of the reason why we allow
cell phones in the schools
is in cases of emergency that has always
been
a parent perspective is they would want
their child to have the cell phone
so you know that would be out of our
control you know the child has a cell
phone they could
9-1-1 if that's what they wish to do
the other question i had and this would
be on the sheriff's department side i
know especially coming out of texas it
seemed to be delays in people getting
out of the sheriff's department and
acting or the police department also
that some of the police officers
supposedly
had access to have done something with
this individual but what was waiting on
permission to be able to do it is are
those type of things being reviewed by
the sheriff's department where they can
act quicker
if it needs to be i mean if you see
somebody running across the schoolyard
with a rifle in his hand you pretty much
know
that you've got an issue this is sort of
having to wait for permission to take
any type of action i was just wondering
if they
sent you involved with them are they
reviewing these type of things to act as
quick as possible because
you know with some of our schools we
locate it like with mount airy it hurts
pretty good they close by but mount airy
is you know way out
so you know unless somebody is out in
that area it might be 10 minutes or 15
minutes before even a deputy could get
there
yes sir i know the sheriff's department
members are on our crisis management
teams
we provide our maps right now paper maps
of the bill so those maps will be
available
on a laptop for a deputy so that when
they come up they have the full layout
of the school on their on their laptop
with the cameras then they can access
this inside of the buildings the
hallways and so they're seeing real time
what's taking place within the schools
so we are doing
those types of things we always are
communicating with our sheriff's
department
on plans for different
crises that may take place so we do have
open lives of communication i know mr
scott he chairs those teams
we have a safety audits each year where
teams go into our schools and look at
how evaluate how safe our schools are we
do a lot but
as always we want to continue to enhance
to improve what we're doing and this the
cameras would be that one one additional
approach to take
any other discussion
oh yeah
mr burton uh mr fitzgerald is absent mr
henderson aye ms merrick aye mr mills
aye mr moon aye mr doss all right
mr dawson the next item i have is the
framework for middle school athletics i
provided that memo to you all in your
packet
what i'd like to ask from you all
is direction
after this presentation for next steps
we do have a policy i think in our
discussion last month that that's
probably the next step that we need to
take would be to address that policy and
change the policy the policy right now
is reads that only 9th graders and above
high school students participate in
interscholastic athletics so i think if
the approach if you all want us to move
forward that may be a first step but i'd
like to kind of
draw your attention to some of the items
mentioned in in this uh memo
uh the first the first item was pretty
much what was shared with us by one of
our speakers
she indicated that she had surveyed the
entire state on participation in middle
school athletics i surveyed region six
and that's the superintendent region in
which we're a member of
but also surveyed adjacent counties
those counties that touch pennsylvania
county
all those divisions offer middle school
sports
we had three of those that offered
football volleyball cross country boys
and girls basketball baseball softball
track golf
and boys and girls soccer
the remaining of that number of about 10
or so school divisions offered some sort
of different options whether it be
basketball and baseball or football and
softball but offered six or so of those
those sports listed so most offer a
majority of those sports that were
listed
the next item that
that i've indicated in this memo is that
we've met with middle school principals
about
what
what they see the limitations would be
within their buildings and i think
another speaker spoke about facilities
do we have ample facilities to
accommodate
our high school programs
our middle school programs and then
parks and recreation programs that use
our buildings
as you're probably aware you're probably
aware that many of our middle school
gyms and even some of our elementary
gyms are utilized by our high school
teams
so that becomes
a scheduling
matter that would have to look at
if that's the approach that you all want
to take as far as middle school sports
so i provided that information in here
and then i have provided a table
regarding what's available
at each of our schools and so if you
look at the second page of your memo i
listed the schools on the the left hand
column
and then whether they had a a football
field
a gym
or a field that could play baseball
fields in softball fields
so at chatham high school
our chatham middle school we have a
football field we have a gym with about
200 capacity 200 visitor capacity or fan
capacity
we have a baseball field but we do not
have a softball field
at dan river middle school we have a
football field we have a gym
we have a baseball field
but no softball
field at gretna middle school
we do not have a football field but we
have space available that the principal
thinks that we make it mark off a
football field soccer field
we have the gym
but we have a softball and a baseball
field at gretna middle school
and then at tunstall middle school
there's don't we do not have a football
field but we may have space to mark off
a football field
we have the gym
but we do not have a baseball or a
softball field
so that in itself creates some issues
about what you can offer
you know we all have to work under title
ix
and what title ix pretty much the gist
of title ix is that what you offer for
boys you have to offer for girls so it
has to be a comparable offering so that
would also be
something that you all would have to
think about
and then
i priced
uh what one sport would cost and this
would be one sport for boys
and the same sport or comparable sport
for girls what the cost would be to
implement one sport for one year and i
provided that cost for you
you know i kind of use basketball
because basketball is probably the
cheapest sport we have a gym
i think we'll have some scheduling
issues that would have to work through
but i use that as in the scenario
on on your in your memo
and it looks like
probably about eighty five thousand
dollars
to implement that one sport for boys
support for boys and girls for the first
year
the second year
there's some recurring costs
that will be ongoing but some one-time
costs that drop off so after that it
looks like about 47 so estimate about 50
000 per year
to actually have a basketball team for
girls
and basketball teams for boys and that's
one team for the middle school so that's
probably a 678 team or however the
schools would like to
to accommodate the students that's for
all four schools right that's all four
schools that's not one school it's all
four schools the cost
okay so it's about 12 for school roughly
yes
yeah that's 50 it's 85 000
estimate for all four schools
for one year to start up
and then
about 47 000 about 50 000
per year after that for all the schools
so if you divide that by four about
twelve five or so
uh to keep that one sport for boys and
girls going for the remainder of the
time there's some startups like uniforms
and those types of things that we had to
purchase equipment that we'd purchase in
the first year
and then my last paragraph
i think that if the board wishes to to
move us down
this path would look at the policy going
back to the policy the policies written
for high school athletics
uh we need to start to revise that
and then move forward to provide some
options for you all
yes sir i can put this on the website to
make it available would y'all want to
see i'm sure y'all said that he's
talking about reading alphabets we got
it i've looked at it right y'all have it
so if i get him
can you get uh i don't know miss
clifton's not she retired so who i was
doing the web page miss reynolds
can you fix a middle school athletics
web
something
on the web for that
that would be great
i would appreciate it
and it would be a good way to try to
keep y'all updated on where we're at
and in it
go live with that
yeah
okay i i would like to thank dr jones
for his input and and the work that he's
done
i want you guys to know that
i am pro athletics if there ever was and
pro sports
this is not going to be an easy fix
it's not going to happen overnight i
think i'm fair to say that it's not
going to happen overnight
but at least
we started the dialogue
we've
got the conversation out
we've done some work on it
and i think it's doable but you need to
understand again it's not doable
tomorrow morning it's something we're
really going to have to work on but the
thing that i think is encouraging
is that i'm not hearing any negativity
about anything so
thank you dr jones appreciate that
i think what's encouraging to me is to
make it happen y'all have to have the
ones that's going to have to help us
make it happen right
so to see that many come out tonight
really it's encouraging to me i'm
look anything that gets a child an
extracurricular activity i can tell you
it's going to keep them busy and out of
trouble i know that
um
so i you know i'm for it too but again
it's not as easy as turning the light
switch on so
you know with a lot of work and a lot of
community help i think we can get there
um so
yes sir yes sir
mr dawson i need direction from you all
do we do you all wish for us to look at
that policy
um
and bring that back to the board uh next
month
i would like to make a motion to proceed
with the revision of the school board
regulation igda to include middle school
sports
i think we're spinning our wheels if we
don't do it and i think that's the first
thing is that a second
huh she made a motion does that say i
can't hear her way over here she wasn't
talking to me she made a motion is that
a second when you said yes thank you
and also dr jones as we can you hear me
now george i can't okay um i would also
we discussed earlier i think
space transportation a lot of that is
going to be an issue but i really think
one of our solutions to that is to
entertain the idea of having 180 a whole
separate position
at every high school so you're taking
that away from your one of your
assistant principals
so you're gaining two assistant
principles letting them do that work and
letting that one a d schedule middle and
high school so you don't have conflicts
with your field your transportations i
think that would be easier than having
one separate 80 at a middle school
and and that was in our discussion with
the principals where if we if this
blossoms into one more than one sport
you know this scenario was based on some
type of a part-time athletic director
you know if you look at a full-blown
program at your middle schools then
that's going to be a a full-time job
there
in itself so you're exactly right that
may you know that may increase some of
the
requirements as the programs grow or the
number of programs grow is that
something that we could go ahead and
look at so that
an athletic director could work with the
current athletic directors
to understand the position the
scheduling and then maybe even go ahead
and start implementing middle school
sports maybe as early as spring so you
have one season to work through before
you start an entire year but but that
becomes a budget
item
and our current budget you know i don't
know that we would have the money to to
afford
you know for athletic directors if
that's what you're asking
if you're paying them a teacher stipend
not an admin cycle
you know we'd have to look at how how
that would work
but i understand the motion is now that
to go back and
talk about revising the policies
revision policy of revision is that
correct that's the motion
that would be step one okay and i think
that's where we need to start somewhere
around you know it's
budget time will come up in
what october november when we start the
budget process
so we'll need to keep that i see miss
worley back now she can put that on her
radar
is she squirming if if i can make a
suggestion
before we start messing with policy
we've got a work session coming up yes
i'd like to discuss this
in that worst section
to answer several questions i have just
like the question you brought up
to get a little more firm what we're
looking at before we change policy when
if we change make some operations now
then
we may have to change it again
that's fine when is the work section
we're going to set that tonight we're
going to set that up tonight okay that's
on the agenda later on i thought he was
looking at february every board member
on the same page asked please board
members come and ask frank questions
my concern is not that we don't do it
but that we get people over
expectations we over promise what we can
do and get into it and find that no it's
because the budgetary
or facilities it's going to take a
little longer to do than we thought it
would
so i'd like to nail some of that down
before we start changing policy
one of the things i've told people that
i've talked to is you gotta crawl before
you walk and walk before you run
so i think we gotta crawl through the
beginnings of it before we can start
walking and i think walking is the part
where you can start looking at what
sports you you can
implement the easiest and the quickest
and the most economical probably
so i have a motion to
do you want to do you still want to have
them look at it
but but proceed with the motion yeah
let's still we can look at it and and we
can still talk about it mr we don't have
to approve until after we have the work
session are you okay with that
but go ahead and
and
vote on the motion tonight just to look
at it
so we can have stuff available for us
maybe at the work session
i'd just like to save them as much time
as it can but most after that we do have
a motion and a second so i'm going to do
a roll call
mr burton abstain
mr fitzgerald is absent mr henderson aye
ms merricks aye mr mills aye mr moon aye
mr doll
yes sir uh mr dahl school remembers the
next item i have i'd like to provide an
update regarding
the broadband initiative
we received an update
from
river street networks uh mr david arnold
on july the 1st
and they stated the following
it is anticipated
that the vatti grant
will be fully approved by the virginia
department of housing and community
development
river street has completed flagging in
the renan exchange and has started
flagging the sandy level exchange and
river street has continued to finalizing
to finalize the overall project design
and engineering
i provided in your attached to the memo
a map of where the flagging is taking
place
and i know that the board of supervisors
is will have this update for them at
their next meeting as well
and that's all i have other than just
remind you all that we have a principles
meeting on july the 25th and you all are
invited to that
we have our new employee orientation on
july the 27th and 28th please stop by if
you'd like speak with mr mayhew hugh if
you'd like to to have lunch with us on
those days and you're welcome to come
for breakfast and lunch on the 25th
i would like to
draw your attention to the annual
convention the vspa annual convention is
november the 16th through the 18th right
now it's scheduled in williamsburg
i think that's all i had this evening
for you
so this is not really your report but i
just it reminded me of something
i did confirm with the registrar that mr
fitzgerald
is running
unopposed
in november so mr fitzgerald will be
staying on the board
um the remainder of mr ramsey's term so
i just thought for those who didn't know
he is running unopposed and will be stay
with us
okay on the unfinished business update
on the student dress code you had in
your packet
a letter from ms eaton and miss craig
about the dress code and dr jones and i
talked about this the other day the last
time that
this was done
was about six or seven years ago the
best we can remember
i don't know the exact timeline but i
know it was a while back
so i think it's probably time to address
it again styles change
clothes change people change
so i'm okay moving forward with going
ahead and looking at this i think
they're going to look at it throughout
the year there are going to
be
parents
teachers administrators
on this committee just like we did
six or seven years ago when we did it
and came up with the current dress code
so
ms i don't know if miss eden and miss
craig's gonna facilitate this or they're
gonna cope with that
so you'll be hearing something out of
them but those listening or interested
contact your principal if you're
interested in it and let them know so
they can
let and this is going to be middle and
high school right now so let them know
if you're a parent with a middle or high
school student and you're interested
please let your principal know
does anybody have any questions on that
if not
last month we talked about the minority
advisory council and we got there was
some confusion
um i asked them ms hancock and them to
go back and try to clear up some of the
confusion for us
just to remind you it started as adding
an additional
representative from each district
and the rationale behind that was that
the pennsylvania county is becoming more
and more diverse in its population
and there's more and more minority
groups of
individuals out there
and in order to try to serve all of the
different groups it was
this was a
effort to allow more people on that
minority council
so that we could get more diverse group
of people in there
and one of the things that they
i think dr jones and some of them talked
about i wanted to do was to stagger
terms
of when people are appointed
i think miss hancock has that
so do you want to read it for us
so try to be clear for y'all
so before she starts
is everybody on board now does everybody
understand
yes you're okay all right i'll ask miss
hancock to try to read through what what
the actual proposal is
the suggested changes include
14 minority members
i'm sorry i can't hear you
the changes include
having 14
minority members
a school representative from each school
zone
central office representatives and two
school board members
the each school board member
will appoint two minority individuals to
the council from their respective
magisterial district in pennsylvania
county the membership of the council
should be representative of the diverse
population of the county
also in addition
in addressing the
membership and the
stability of the committee
we are suggesting to include this
statement
to assure stability of membership and
retention
of experienced members of the minority
advisory council a staggered term
schedule has been set for each district
beginning with the 2022-2023
cancel the current member will serve a
one-year term and the new incoming
member will serve a two-year term so we
can have that staggered
terms for that
of course if the member decides not to
serve then of course we would have two
members
and we would have to determine which
individual would serve one year and
which would serve two
okay
so now is there any discussion is
anybody still confused on any of it
miss hancock with that last statement if
a member decides that they don't want to
continue serving
would someone just serve out their term
like we did with school board okay
any other questions
are we playing is this going to be as of
effective we'll have a certain date
we're going to start all over
yeah we'd like to do it this year mr
burns past july yep we would like to
know if the person if i already have
somebody there they'll stay there
okay
unless they decide they don't wish
unless they wish to not do it anymore
unless they resigned from it basically
yeah that's always been the case
yeah i've already asked the second
person to think
the first person's already there
is it fair i'm going to ask this
question anyway
are asians
and spanish people
and other minorities fairly represented
so forth so far on this on this advisory
committee
not really in the past
that's that's what brought it to my
attention
that's why i went started this process
because it came to my attention that
they were not represented
well
i guess my question is are they going to
be represented this term
yes you'll have to pick another
representative
to give them in the next few weeks
and you should pick someone
from another
someone that could fulfill that
okay okay
you clear
clear but not satisfied
okay
miss hancock i know one time many many
years ago i
saw a report showing how many different
nationalities were in our school
division i was shocked with so many i'd
like to have that idea again how many
different
nationalities we have in our division
and mr burton i think going forward even
down the road from here forward you're
going to see more and more
people coming into the county oh yeah
that are that are
different
in this song that's right as you reach
now these folks you can always ask a
different nationality next time
do do we have that breakdown by school
very or just the whole county has a
total
where you somewhere to different
ethnicities
yeah we have about school
we did one time you do so if if you're
not sure
i would i would suggest that you reach
out to one of your principals in yo
district
they probably know some people
whether they be asian or hispanic or
some other
race that would
they know that they could recommend for
you
if you don't know anybody right off
right you know just reach out to your
principals you know one word of caution
because it's happened to me a couple of
times
it's your magisterial district not the
attendance of that school got to be in
your voting district right
but i've had people recommend to me
from
the uh high school but they were not in
my magisterium that's because i have a
lot of students my voting district could
go to chatham high school that's right
george has a lot of folks still he does
i have a lot of tunnels so it's our
voting district is not the attendant
zone district you're correct
so mr burton is right he's cautioning
you on you know make sure that you've
got the right district
okay do i have a motion then wait so
when we're saying minorities are we only
talking about racial minorities
there's a lot of ways you can categorize
people
so there's i mean a lot of different
minorities so we only talking about
racial or
minority advisor cancel i guess it's
whatever you want to put on it that
you'll pick
unless we define it different i would
say your definition of minority
yeah i might wanna
i'm i'm really you know what you know mr
dos i'm torn between this i have been
for a while and i'm gonna continue to be
i guess my question is is
can we move into the 23
24 school year
without approv
i guess i want to see i want to see a
diversity diversified
segment in the whole county
i don't think it's fair for me to have
one ethnic group
and not be able to have another you'll
have to well that's the person having
two
i don't want to prove this
i can't i can't
i i just okay
it's all right i just can't go along
without
i can't go along with 23 24
or 22-23
22-23
unless i can withdraw one of my
candidates
can i do that legally
i don't think so right
one of them was just recommended to me
this this past week do we have to accept
it and i'm all for that person don't get
me wrong do we have to accept that
person though i won't i won't you make
the appointment mr henderson you make
the appointment
it's your appointment you can appoint
anybody you want to appoint if they vote
in your district or live in your
district
i don't even know they have to be voters
right but they have to live in your
district i guess my question then is i
understand that my question is do we
have to agree
on the ones that are being presented
tonight there's nothing going to be
presented tonight we're just changing
the minority council to allow us to put
more people on it
then we'll ask you to come back probably
next month with some names
okay
i'm good with that
that's what we're doing
i'm not asking for a name tonight okay
i'm asking us to increase the membership
i'm good with that i'm okay with that
okay that's all we're doing tonight
are you clear now
no
yes i'm clear
i sure am calling me tomorrow
mr dawson i made this mess call me
tomorrow the way that this is reading
now we so you are starting fresh like
you have no current members on this
and they own for so many years right
they have an expiration time so they're
serving one more year according to the
way that this is read right and then
every district
or each one of us are putting one more
person
on the board that's going to serve two
years okay and then next year you'll
you'll put the another one on and so
then you start running the current one
is going off right this next and then
you start rotating is that
that matter so you got one one more year
before the album gets replaced
i've been clear all along really i just
wanted to put it on the floor
all right george
all right can i have a motion then
so
[Music]
second
all right is there any more discussion
roll call please miss unconscious mr
burton aye mr fitchstart is absent mr
henderson aye ms merricks aye mr mills
aye mr moon aye mr doss all right
now next is
the second reading and final approval a
request for us name a school classroom
in gretna elementary
i'll make that motion i'll second
is there any discussion on that
roll call please mr burton uh mr
fitzgerald's absent mr henderson aye ms
merricks aye mr mills aye mr moon aye mr
doss all right
next is a revision of school board
policies it's the second reading we had
the first reading last month the second
reading to a final approve
those
so move
second
any discussion on any of them
all right roll call please mr burton aye
mr fitzgerald is absent mr henderson aye
ms merricks aye mr mills aye mr moon aye
mr doss all right
all right we're gonna start new business
under new business we got the first
three items miss worley i'm gonna ask
you if you'll come up please
the first one is the 2122 budget summary
and request for carryover
part of that is going to be i think
categorical adjustments correct it's
kind of all tied together
and then you want to talk about the
health
savings account
so we'll kind of let you do all three of
them together because they kind of all
tied together is that okay that's so
quick thank you board members we ought
to be very pleased that she decided to
come spend her birthday with us yeah i
know she had many other choices and she
chose to come to us
absolutely all day what a better way to
spend your birthday with this much right
exactly and it's all over facebook about
it also i think
okay so good evening i'm going to talk
to you tonight about um
the year ending june 30 2022. you have
that report in your packet the first
thing that we will look at is
our year-end report that shows our
revenues and expenditures by category
and it shows our carryover for um
for june 30 2022 and you can see that is
broken down the majority of our
carryover our grant funds or they are
projects or
materials that we have ordered
before june 30 but have not received or
have not finished and we're asking to
carry those funds over so we can pay for
those projects and notice the first
thing is the operations carryover we did
purposefully try to save some money for
diesel and heating fuel for next year
our contract that we currently have
which is based on
last october september october time
frame that will be ending and we will go
out to bed and we know that our prices
will be significantly higher and we do
not have an operating increase in the
new budget that we adopted
and hopefully this is just a temporary
um
problem so we will not be facing that um
in the um 24 school year as well any
question on any of the projects or any
of the carryovers what i need for you to
do tonight is just to approve um
this report approve the carryover to go
to the board of supervisors so they can
appropriate that into our next year
budget
and then if you look at the um
the next document that i have for you it
is just um making changes in our
categories the board of supervisors for
for those of you that do not know they
approve our budget by category
and
they work with us very well so that
throughout the year if things do need to
be changed um they'll make a final
adjustment um after our june 30 year
and um and then you will see that our
school nutrition budget um collected
quite a bit more money than was um
budgeted last year
and
i don't want to misspeak i don't know if
mr mayhew so all of our schools are cep
but we we have not actually been
operating under cep we've been operating
under
like the summer feeding program
during covid and i think that will
change for this upcoming school year but
due to that we have brought in quite a
bit um more federal money than we had
anticipated so that's been been very
good for the program
so any questions on year end on
categories
over
any of the above the only comment i want
to make for the rest of the board is
when when i looked at this and saw the
numbers pretty high number so i did ask
dr jones to reach out to mr mundy and
make sure that
that the board of supervisors has any
questions to make sure they can
understand why we have this carryover
and how we got to it and i think you've
done that correct
because you know when you just look at a
bottom line number and don't understand
it it could it'd be a little different
but yeah am i correct
when i looked at this it's about a
million dollars you're looking at trying
to hold for fuel and
diesel next year yes so it's a pretty
big number that we're expecting fuel
costs to go up anybody's been to the
pump gas pumps lately and everybody's
been right
yeah it's pretty pretty staggering on it
yes
mr dawson and audience our buses travel
two million miles per year so we do
spend quite a bit on on fuel
what do they get mr
scott about six eight miles to the
gallon starting and stopping
about nine do the math then right
and i have reached out to the county
already i've spoken with the finance
director we've talked about the
carryover
and um
at this point she does not foresee that
a requested meeting would need to be
held
that between our conversations and her
passing the information on and the
understanding they're facing the same
things they're already facing paying the
higher gas prices and diesel prices that
we have not quite faced
i just want to make sure we still you
know that they understand and we're on
the page with them yeah no surprises
right
all right yes
anybody have any other questions for
miss worley
you want to talk about the health care a
little bit of you you want to cover that
you want to um i i can do do you want me
to talk just a tiny bit i know the
health and dental rates were on your
desk report they were and and this is
really just i'm talking about our health
savings accounts do you want me to say a
couple of things about health and dental
all right do you want to talk about it
i think the employees probably want to
hear it yeah go ahead and just touch on
it briefly okay so we will be releasing
the new rates for um for health and
dental our health insurance did increase
about seven point six percent almost
eight percent um the rate the overall
rates and you know what that means
that's just the overall premiums that we
bring into our fund so when you break
that down between the different groups
the ones that have key care 30 the ones
that have um
individual coverage or the ones that
have um family coverage you know those
dollars you know break out to be a
little bit more
we have increased the employer
amount and we have also increased we
have a health insurance fund that was
started many many years ago
with our
proceeds from anthem when anthem went
public
and we have that fund has grown over the
years and that money can only be used
for
health insurance can only be used for
employees for health insurance so we are
increasing the amount that we're taking
from that fund for the next year we
watched that fund it has been growing
um and we're we're not taking any more
out of it um the upcoming year than we
did this past year and we think that
we're that we're moving in the right
direction there um increases to
employees or anywhere from seven and a
half to fifteen percent
depending on which plan that they have
we have the two options the key care 30
and we have a high deductible health
plan i do encourage our employees to
look at our high deductible health plan
of course that is cheaper it's different
we have a very good um
it's called a brain shark presentation
that's been on our website we have that
on there every year and it really breaks
down the plans it explains them it
explains what your health savings
account means
and it's very good information for our
employees and of course we are always
available to answer any questions um the
memo tonight and so dental let me speak
to that really quickly that has actually
decreased about 14 percent we are
passing those savings on to our
employees obviously those premiums are
much smaller for dental as opposed to
health insurance
but we
definitely wanted our employees to see
those savings this year
really the only thing that i can tell
you um as to why that happens we're
self-insured health and dental
unfortunately
our employees just have not started
seeking dental services
that really went down during covid
um and so far that has not picked back
up so um we we certainly would like to
see that happen but um that is really
why our premiums have gone down for
dental
um and this this past year we um
we came to the board and we asked you to
start making an annual contribution into
our health savings accounts for our
employees
when an employee signs up for the first
time for the um high deductible health
plan we open their health savings
account with a 500 deposit
the county we're all in the same plan
but they do um you know they make their
own rules they do
they have been giving
that 500 every year and they've been
increasing it every year for their
employees
so this past school year we came to you
asking for a thousand dollars a year to
go into our employees health savings
account recurring employees we've done
that this year i think it has made a
very big difference
for our employees we have a lot of
employees that do not put any money into
that savings account
you know we share information with them
but we can't make them do that but that
is how you have money to pay your
ongoing medical bills we are asking that
we continue that practice um into the
future
okay so any questions on
that or anybody have any questions from
this world on any of these i'm going to
ask that we'll approve them one at a
time so the first one's going to be the
20 21 2022 budget carryover funds
i get a motion to approve that
i'll make a motion
second
any other discussion on that
roll call please mr burton aye mr
fitzgerald is absent mr henderson aye ms
merricks aye mr mills aye mr moon aye mr
doss all right
the next one is categorical adjustments
um
you saw where they wanted to shift the
money money within funds do i have a
motion to approve that
i make a motion second
any other discussion
roll call please mr burton aye mr
fitzgerald is absent mr henderson aye ms
merricks aye mr mills aye mr moon aye mr
doss all right
and then the next one is employee health
savings account to continue the deposits
in that account for those make a motion
second
any discussion
roll call please mr burton aye mr
fitzgerald is absent mr henderson aye ms
merricks aye mr mills aye mr moon all
right mr dallas
aye
thank you miss world i appreciate the
good job y'all doing the hard work to
try to keep it as best you can
every time i think we take a step
forward with raises we seem to have to
take a back step
because of healthcare or gas or whatever
we just can't win can we
um i need to approve this sick leave
bank for 2022 2023 committee
so move
second
any discussion on that
pro call please mr burton aye mr
fitzgerald is absent mr henderson
all right mr mills all right mr moon all
right mr bounce all right
for the budget committee for next year i
asked mr burton would you chair that
uh
i will i would love to see some of the
new
face
i'm going to get to a new one
would you check
yes mr moon and mr um fitzgerald
he's not here tonight so he can't say no
right
okay
school nutrition program food bed need
approval
cisco i believe it was right
cisco
i move we approve
one second
any discussion
roll call please mr burton aye mr
fitzgerald is absent mr henderson aye ms
merricks aye mr mills all right mr moon
aye mr doss all right
next is a revision of performance
evaluation anybody that knows me knows
several years ago i had a fit about this
and i don't like it but the state forces
us to do it and this year they've added
the eighth
category it was seven
this year they'll be eight categories so
we have to approve
the new performance evaluation
have a motion
i move to approve it i don't like it
either i don't need them
a second
i don't like it because it's state
forces you know what they're trying to
make you do and i just don't like the
whole setup of it i really don't but
obviously educators didn't set this up
so
roll call please mr burton aye mr
fitzgerald was absent mr henderson hi
miss merricks aye mr mills aye mr moon
aye mr doss
um
this position of surplus property at the
intersection of renan road and harmony
road you got a resolution i make a
motion that would give superintendent
authorities to dispose of the property
damn
i'll second it if it's a tax assessment
are you okay with that mr burton yes
okay
we got to do this to a resolution i
believe
so if you let her read the resolution
that's okay do you mind okay the motion
is to adopt a resolution to confirm
declaration of identified property on
renin road as surplus
completion of public hearing to hear
comments which was completed this
evening
and to sell this property at the current
market value of three thousand dollars
right now i might get motion i'll
certainly okay any discussion on that
roll call please mr burton aye mr
fitzgerald is absent mr henderson aye ms
merricks aye mr mills aye mr moon aye mr
bounce hi
next is a school board work session and
she has a list here for topics of
discussion
i'm going to ask
mr pulley who was a
school attorney to come in
since we have some new members
and it's always good for us older
members to hear it again but i've asked
mr pulley to come in and do kind of a
presentation he did a good number of
years ago
and kind of refresh us on it um for the
school board he will be coming to do
that um
do y'all want to just try to come
let's see we've got to also do a foia
training right
conflict of interest so
so do y'all want to try to tackle all of
that one evening early before the
regular meeting do y'all want to try to
do that on a different night
i think you need to do it on a different
night because it probably could be
extended time
do you want to you want to do the
conflict of interest training the same
time we do mr pulley
do you want to do that before the
meeting
you have any prayer how long is it that
about an hour
no the conflict of interest
about iowa yeah
the art immediate context of interest
either time might work better than me
but mr bullying
we may have a lengthy discussion in the
work session that's what i'm thinking
maybe we just need to do the work
session have mr pulley and do the
conflict of interest training another
time right
okay so we're gonna do the conflict of
interest in before the august meet
that's what she's proposing is that okay
with y'all and it is a web-based right
so i guess if you can't make it an hour
before the meet next time if you'll come
in and get let her know you could
probably do it at a different time if
you need to
okay
and so
september y'all want to do a
what do y'all want to do on the on the
work session y'all want to do an evening
or you want to go saturday
evening
he don't want saturday so can y'all come
in on one afternoon then
like six o'clock now maybe six o'clock
yeah let's do that
let's see
i'll be the chairman and to the miss
hancock and superintendent get together
and find make sure we don't find them
ignite we got a lot of ladies but
mondays tuesdays and thursdays work all
right for me
it's good monday
and thursday
is okay with you yeah i don't have
anything
sorry most time wins is evil but what
you wanted before us the
labor day is the first monday so we
don't want to do it there would you run
it before the september board meeting or
do you think there would be enough time
they want to do it from the board in
case it gets into a lengthy
you like to do it maybe the 15th on the
thursday
thursdays are hard for me part thursday
yeah what's your best day for you
any other day thursday but thursday
all right
you want to go for tuesday the six day
afterward today
august 6th september oh okay
i'll get her to check with with mr
pulley and see if that that's agreeing
with him and if it ain't we'll come back
and
talk about it maybe next month that's
for the work session as well i'm almost
say september the 6th right now
six o'clock
if that's okay with mr pulley
you're telling me september not august
september
that's a tuesday
yeah y'all can do that i mean if you
find that you y'all can work out today
okay
we'll let you know yeah
we still want the questions or any
topics that you may have yeah by july
the 25th
i didn't hear a thing you said to me i
said we would still like to have the
topics that you would like discussed at
the
school board work session by july the
25th if you can get that back to me and
we know that middle school sports will
be one of them so you can go and put
that one on there
any other topics you want to talk about
and discuss
that they can be prepared for
all right we'll get back with you on
that after we talk to
mr pulley
and then the final item tonight is we
need to approve the name change for
chatham high schools changing the bank
account and we have to approve the
signatures to go on that new account
signees
i'll make a motion we approve it
second
any discussion
roll call please wait a minute are we
just we just changed the two sign
without changing banks or
not changing banks okay
have to change when we change people yep
yep
okay we have to approve it
okay
you agree up you're good yep roll call
mr burton aye mr fitzgerdl is absent mr
henderson hi miss mary all right mr
mills aye mr moon all right mr dog hi
all right i'm paying them
i'll make a motion with adjourned
second roll call please
mr burton all right mr bitchstart is
absent mr henderson aye ms merrick aye
mr mills aye mr moon aye mr doss all
right
thank you all for coming tonight i
appreciate it it's good to see people in
now
you